### Plugins

rJS abstracts the asset build process through a uniform, plugin-based interface. Plugins group raw files that are supposed to be built in a certain way. A plugin is declared for each directory in the `/src` directory that contains a `plugin.js` build module. The build module describes how the remaining files in the very plugin directory are supposed to be built and eventually served.

### Custom Plugin

Some files require a source form different from how it would be served to a web client. For instance, a different abstraction level, or distribution across different files to enhance readability. Compiling such source files for being ready to be served is referred to as performing a build. A build represents an explicit step that is required to be run manually, or mediated by a build tool (e.g. [Gulp](https://gulpjs.com)). With rJS, the actual build step is virtualised and optimised out-of-the-box.

For our lottery application, we need client-side logic to trigger a lottery drawing and display its results. In order to save on bandwidth, we want the script to be minified when being served. Such a scenario requires for a build, which concludes to a plugin in rJS:

``` dir
.
├─ /api
├─ /src
│  └─ /scripts
│     ├─ app.js    (raw build file)
│     └─ plugin.js (build module)
└─ /public …
```

<small class="docs-filename">/src/scripts/plugin.js</small>

``` js
import UglifyJS from "uglify-js";

export default function(rJS, pluginFilesystem) {
  return [
    new rJS.File(
      "/app.js",
      UglifyJS.minify(
        pluginFilesystem.get("app.js").contents
      ).code
    )
  ];
}
```

> We use [UglifyJS](https://github.com/mishoo/UglifyJS) to minify our JavaScript file. Install it from NPM by the command `npm install uglify-js`.

Built files are not written to, but virtually available from the `/public` directory (imagine they were there). We implemented the rJS plugin interface as to return all the built files. In this case, it is a single file that shall publicly be available from the path `/app.js`. That being said, let's reference it from our page markup.

<small class="docs-filename">/public/index.html</small>

``` html
<head>
  <title>Lottery App</title>
  <script src="/app.js"></script>
</head>
```

### External Plugin

Of course, our application should have a nice look. Let's say we want to descibe its style with SCSS, rather than plain CSS. Since web browsers do not understand SCSS code, we need to build it to CSS. Since this is a common problem, we can reuse an existing SCSS plugin from the rJS plugin ecosystem. In that case, we do not need to implement the plugin behaviour ourselves, but simply reference the plugin package from a build configuration file `plugin.json`:

``` dir
.
├─ /api
├─ /src
│  ├─ /scripts …
│  └─ /scss
│     ├─ app.scss
│     └─ plugin.json
└─ /public …
```

<small class="docs-filename">/src/scss/plugin.json</small>

``` json
{
  "package": "@rapidjs.org/plugin--scss"
}
```

<small class="docs-filename">/public/index.html</small>

``` html
<head>
  <title>Lottery App</title>
  <script src="/app.js"></script>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="/app.css">
</head>
```