## Plugins

Plugins represents the atomic build unit for an rJS-powered application. The modularity of plugins favours information hiding across the build architecture. Moreover, plugins may be reused across projects and shared across organistions.

From an abstract perspective, a plugin consists of up to three conceptual components:

1. A designated plugin directory,
2. a build instructions JavaScript module, and
3. an optional plugin configuration file.

### Plugin Directory

Besides the build target directory (commonly `/public`), an rJS-based project consists of a plugins directory (commonly `/src`). Each directory in the plugins directory corresponds to a single plugin directory – and plugin implicit declaration. This means that plugins do not have to be declared explicitly with code, but are derived from the file structure. The files within a single plugin directory are individual to each plugin and project as they represent the raw build source files. For instance, the directory of a plugin that transpiles SCSS to CSS files would contain the `*.scss` files. The below example illustrates a simple rJS project structure – with two fictional plugins for image compression and blogging:

``` dir
├─ /public …
└─ /src
   ├─ /compression-plugin
   │  ├─ images
   │  │  ├─ earth.png
   │  │  └─ mars.png
   │  └─ plugin.js
   └─ /blog-plugin
      ├─ /posts
      │  ├─ post-1.md
      │  └─ post-2.png
      └─ plugin.js
```

### Build Module

The build instructions module is the center piece of a plugin. It is meant to programmatically describe how the raw source files are supposed to be built. The build instructions module is expected in the plugin directory root, by the name `plugin` (`plugin.[cm]?js`). Whenever rJS consults a plugin for a build, it evaluates the build module and calls its default export. The build module default export is a callable that produces the built files. A default export implementation must therefore comply with the type `TBuildInterfaceCallable` (see below). On consultation, the following parameters are passed to the callable (in the given order):

1. The pivotal rJS build API (hereiafter identified as `rJS`),
2. an API-based object to access the raw files from the related plugin directory (herein `pluginFiles`),
3. a serialisable configuration object (`config`),
4. if applicable – an object with additional options (`options`, depending on the progressive environment), and
5. a boolean indicating whether the runtime mode is development mode.

The return value of the callable is ought to provide API-based file objects that are an equivalent image of the definite output files. In particular, the relative path tells rJS where to output the files in the target directory.

``` ts
type TBuildInterfaceCallable = (
  rJS: {
    Directory: typeof Directory;
    File: typeof File;
    Filesystem: typeof Filesystem;
  },
  pluginFiles: Filesystem,
  config: JSON,
  dev: boolean;
) => (Directory|File)[];
```

> How the raw files in a plugin directory are built depends on the build module implementation. Hence, all one-by-one, many-to-one or many-to-many file mappings are possible.

### Build Configuration

An optional build configuration file enables simple plugin configuration without the need to alter the build module code. The file is expected in the plugin directory root as a JSON named `plugin.json`. At that, any information assigned to the topmost `config` property is passed as-is to the build module callable's `config` parameter (see above). Considering a javascript obfuscator, such information could for instance be the obfuscation degree.

``` json
{
  "config": {
    "obfuscationDegree": 0.75
  }
}
```

> You will grasp the value of the configuration file once you learn about external plugin reusability.