## Plugin API

The rJS plugin API is a simple, yet powerful set of classes that virtualise all files that matter to a plugin – the raw files to-be-built, as well as the eventual build results. rJS mirrors the known filesystem analogies – namely directories and files. It provides just the information necessary to transform the individual build files residing in a respective plugin directory into files rJS is ought to build.

### File

Instances of the `File` class bear the significant build information through their contents. A file carries a set of meta properties, such as its name or path relative to the target directory (that can be either the plugin directory root for raw source files; or the public files directory root for built files). Besides, its `content` property gives access to the file contents.

``` ts
export class File {
    public readonly relativePath: string;
    public readonly name: string;
    public readonly extension: string;

    constructor(relativePath: string, contents?: Buffer | string);

    public readonly contents?: Buffer|string;
}
```

### Directory

Just as obvious as the `File` class' purpose, `Directory` instances mirror hierarchy in the filesystem. A directory can be read in two ways: Either, by its `fileNodes` property to get an array of all nodes (files and directories) it comprises. Or, by traversing the directory and handling each underlying node via callback.

``` ts
export class Directory {
  public readonly relativePath: string;
  public readonly name: string;
  
  public fileNodes: (Directory|File)[];
  
  constructor(relativePath: string, fileNodes: AFilesystemNode[] = []);
  
  public traverse(
    cb: (fileNode: Directory|File) => void,
    recursive: boolean = false
  );
}
```

### File Access

The raw to-be-built files given to the build module callable are accessible through the instance of the `Directory` subclass `Filesystem`. Such a filesystem does additionally provide a method to get an arbitrarily nested node down the filesystem (which is a contextual root directory).

``` ts
export class Filesystem extends Directory {
  public readonly rootPath: string;
  
  public get(relativePath: string): Directory|File;
}
```