## Custom API

Microservice architectures have been supported many benefits over monolithic ones. A strict separation in microservice architectures happens between asset, and API hosts. APIs shield computations or information that cannot or shouldn't be shipped to the client. However, there are many cases where a direct communication channel from the web client to the web server (asset host) is benificial. Consider the example of a client script that requires a unique ID. From within client scope, such an ID cannot be constructed reliably. On the server-side, however, such an ID could simply be derived from the client IP. With a traditional web application environment – such as a LAMP stack – the computed client ID could be inserted through a preprocessor, i.e. server side rendering (SSR).

Again, rJS focuses on client-side hydration, rather than SSR. In order to enable access to constrained server-side computations, however, rJS introduces the concept of leaky scope. This analogy describes access to certain server-side JavaScript modules from the client scope. Needless to say, such a leaky scope can be utilised to build a custom API for the frontend. To reconnect with the previous example, a unique client ID could thus be obtained by calling a respective method from a leaky, custom API module.

### Server-side

Custom API modules must be deployed to a designated directory (commonly `/api`). Each module is addressable by its path relative to this directory (more on this later). Of course, only members that are exported from the module are visible through the API.

``` dir
├─ /public  …
├─ /src …
└─ /api
   └─ client-id.js
```

<small class="docs-filename">/api/client-id.js</small>

``` js
// PRIVATE
function idFromIp(ip, salt) {
  return `ID:${"..."}`;
}

// PUBLIC
export function getClientID(salt) {
  return idFromIp(ip, salt);
}
```

### Client-side

It is simple to read a custom API member from the client. Yet again, rJS automatically takes care of the underlying routing activity. The reserved identifier `rJS` on the global web client scope (`window`) does allow for a conditional import of a custom API module. The generic syntax is as follows:

``` ts
async rJS["<MODULE-PATH>"].<MEMBER>
```

> Using a leaky member – whether it is a property or method – returns a promise of the respective (return) value.

The given example provides a simple application that requests a client ID, and also a geo location for the client.

``` dir
├─ /src …
├─ /public
│  ├─ app.js
│  └─ index.html
└─ /api
   ├─ /shared
   │  └─ geo-locator.js
   └─ client-id.js
```

<small class="docs-filename">/api/client-id</small>

``` html
<html>
  <head>
    <script>
      addEventListener("DOMContentLoaded", async () => {
        const CLIENT_ID = await rJS["/client-id"].getClientID(Math.random() * 1000);

        document.querySelector("#location")
        .textContent = await rJS["/shared/geo-locator"].getClientLocation();
        // or via frontend framework API
      });
    </script>
  </head>
  <body>
    You are from <span id="#location"></span>.
  </body>
</html>
```