## Security

From an outside perspective, a web application served via rJS is measured by its non-functional characteristics. Besides performance properties, security measures represent a crucial concern.

### Request Validation

Each client request is validated in order to prevent insecure computations. The below listing presents noteworthy security measures, and their related configuration parameter (with the default value).

<small class="docs-filename">rjs.config.json</small>

``` json
{
  "security": {
    …
  }
}
```

#### Rate Limit `429`

``` js
security.maxRequestsPerMin: 100
```

> Unit: Request count per minute (sliding window)

#### URI Limit `414`

``` js
security.maxRequestURILength: 250
```

> Unit: URL character length

#### Body Limit `413`

``` js
security.maxRequestBodyByteLength: 1000
```

> Unit: Byte length

#### Headers Limit `431`

``` js
security.maxRequestHeadersLength: 750
```

> Unit: (Concatenated) byte length

### TLS

HTTPS is a state-of-the-art protocol for network communiction. Security is achieved on the transport layer. Given both an SSL certificate, and the respective private key, an rJS server automatically upgrades from HTTP to HTTPS. Certificate and key can be passed through the [CLI](./?p=server:index#interface).

> It is recommended to pass the certificate by file reference. A reference enables adoption of eventual certificate renewal (in-place).

### HTTP to HTTPS Redirection

When hosting with `HTTPS`, and on the respective default port `443`, rJS automatically enables `HTTP:80` to `HTTPS:443` redirection. Most web clients implement a toplevel redirect if an URL is not available through the `HTTP` protocol. This way, all clients are reliably redirected.