# CI/CD

rJS supports webhook-based CI/CD: An rJS server automatically listens for webhook events in order to pull and rebuild repository contents. Any kind of a [GitHub Webhook](https://docs.github.com/webhooks/) is supported. To integrate with rJS CI/CD, it requires two things:

1. A GitHub repository that hosts the application, and
2. a webhook configured to signal repository changes.

> The webhook endpoint is `POST:http[s]://<SERVER-HOST>/`, i.e. simply the root of the web app.

> Upon an incoming webhook event, the repository contents are pulled from the `main` branch.

<small class="docs-filename">package.json</small>

``` json
{
  "repository": {
    "url": "git+https://github.com/<OWNER>/<REPO>"
  }
}
```

## Secrets

Any kind of static configuration belongs to the `rjs.config.json`. However, confidential information is only read from `.env` files that should on the contrary not be checked into a repository. Both the webhook secret, as well as the remote API key need to be stored in the application root directory `.env` file:

``` dir
├─ /api …
├─ /public …
├─ /src …
└─ .env
```

<small class="docs-filename">.env</small>

``` ini
WEBHOOK_SECRET=secret
WEBHOOK_AUTH=key
```

> An authentication key is only required if the respective repository is private.

## Deploy Filter

Webhooks are associated with repositories. Repositories may contain files that are irrelevant to an application in production (e.g., a linter config). The CI/CD mechanism of rJS can filter files to deploy upon a webhook induced pull based on the contents of a `rjs.deploy.json`. On project root level, this file is supposed to contain an array of relative paths to deploy. If a directory is given, all files in the directory are deployed.

> If no `rjs.deploy.json` file is present, all files from the remote repository are deployed.

<small class="docs-filename">rjs.deploy.json</small>

``` json
[
  "package-lock.json",
  "credentials/",
  "deploy/INFO.md",
]
```

> Designated rJS directories – for public files, plugins, and API modules – are whitelisted for deployment by default.